textbook: The Linux Programming Interface (see email for link to discounted
version). Recommends either hardcopy or ebook, no particular preferance. 

Lecture materials will be posted online, recorded ecampus lectures. Class will
be mostly a dialogue. Lectures are SUPPLEMENT to textbook -- it does a
phenomenal job explaining the concepts; it's the canonical text for this
subject matter (prev was Stevens, advanced programming unix environment,
author died in 1999). 2 additional posix standards since old text, and we'll
be writing mostly to posix standard. 

book explains how to program linux environment w/ system calls etc.; use other
resources for how to get Make. Book not available on course reserve, and will
be useful to any programming or sysadmin-related job later. 

Everything run through course website; video lecture links will show up on
class site. Most are ~15 mins. Watch lecture, then read textbook, then rewatch
lecture -- they're all pretty short. Majority of information necessary for
passing class is in the textbook -- lectures are just the high points.
Readings posted are due *that day* -- class discussions will assume that
you've read the section and watched the lecture. 

q: timeline for posting lectures
a: first half should be posted by this afternoon -- don't recommend watching
them out of order, but that's up to you

LaTeX introduction is in-class since ecampus doesn't use TeX

class is scheduled monday-friday but no class fridays because nobody wants to
show up. regular class gets 30 lectures; we get 32 even with fridays off (40
lectures is almost a semester, liek 15-week term, in 8 weeks). 3-day weekend
for this class. 

class every other thursday -- every even week, starting week 2 -- there's a quiz,
and those are the assessments. No exams, final is take-home. 

proj due dates based on when material is covered, and will be adjusted if
schedule changes. But there *will* be 5 assignments. 

"if I find your code for this class on a public GitHub account, ever, I'm
failing you or writing you up for cheating". ...what about BitBucket?

2nd assignment allegedly hardest in class. 

quiz questions are usually SECTION TITLES FROM BOOK...

"I like to ask questions where the answers are bolded in the text for you". 

4 quizzes

os-class.engr.oregonstate.edu -- on-campus or VPN

AMS TeX, J Tex, etc. okay rather than LaTeX. Makefile and example will be
provided for LaTeX. No LyX allowed

"any time the output says do not edit by hand, this should indicate to you
that the tool was a poor choice"

posix: Portable Operating Systems Interface X
