Summer 2012: 

1. Describe the difference between the stat and lstat system calls.
2. The stat struct has a member blksize t st blksize. What is it used for?
3. What system call is used to change the time stamp on a file?
4. What system call allows retrieval of the current time, including DST
status?
5. What is a umask, and what system call allows for its retrieval?
6. Describe broken down time.
7. How can broken down time be converted to a user formatter time string?
8. How is the return value of the times system call converted to seconds?

Fall 2012: 

1. How is the return value of the times system call converted to seconds?
2. What system call allows retrieval of the system time, including DST status?
3. What system call is used to change the timestamp on a file?
4. Describe the process of installing a signal handler using sigaction,
including any specific issues that need to be considered.5. What is a signal?
6. Signals can be handled in 3 ways. Name them. What constants are defined for
your use in setting these actions?
7. How does on create new processes in Linux?
8. Each of the exec library functions have a suffix of some combination of l,
p, c, and v. What does each of these letters imply?

Winter 2013:

1. What does the O CREAT flag mean when passed as part of the flags to a call
to open?
    creates the file if it doesn’t exist
2. Describe the concept of scatter/gather I/O. How does one perform such I/O
in C?
    data to/from multiple buffers in memory
3. The third argument for lseek is whence. What values can this parameter take
on, and what does each mean?
    SEEK SET, SEEK CUR, SEEK END, from start, from current, from end,
    respectively.
4. One of three values must always be present in the open() flags parameter.
What are they?
    O RDONLY, O WRONLY, O RDWR
5. What is a file descriptor, and how are they assigned?
    a non-negative integer corresponding to an opened file, lowest available
    number is used
6. Give the outline of a read/write loop that will copy a file. Don’t worry
about the arguments.
    while((num read = read(...)) != 0) write(...);
7. What happens to a file opened in write mode, if the file already exists?
    truncation
8. How can a file be opened such that we begin writing at the current end of
the file?
    adding O APPEND
9. What are file holes, and how are they created?
    completely empty regions of file, can be created via lseek.
10. Describe the concept of atomicity.
    Totally done, or not at all, can’t be interrupted.

